Raggedy Ann 3D Print

Elise Anderson

Introduction:
Throughout the course, I have been working with digital artefacts derived from my family's Raggedy Ann doll. For this module, I took the model
I had been working with and 3D printed it. 3D printing is a relatively new technology, and as such the possibilities of what it can be used
for are still being explored. In this case,vmy 3d print is a reproduction of the original Raggedy Ann doll, a physical version of the digital
model, and a transformation of the doll into something entirely new. 

Why has it been created and for what use?
The purpose of this module was to make our digital artefacts "real" again, and there is no better way of doing this than creating a physical
artefact. My 3D print is both an extension of the original Raggedy Ann doll and a culmination of everything we have learned in this course. 
The 3D print is based off of the model from module 1, having been remixed (module 2) into a 3d print friendly model and ultimately a 3d 
print. In addition, the object itself adding to the story and memories of the Raggedy Ann doll, as addressed in my module 3 game. Personally, 
it is a reminder both of the original doll (which, made of old fabric has a limited lifespan) and the work done in this course. 

Approach and methods/steps
First, I used Meshmixer to convert my Module 1 model into stl format. I then began to edit my model to make the design more 3d printer 
friendly. I added a circular base, cleaned the edges of the model, and used the sculpt tool to smooth the surface. Once this was done, I 
made the model solid, and then added a hollow center to save 3d printing time and money. Finally I added supports and sent the design to the
Discovery Centre in the Carleton Library for 3d printing. I then just had to remove the supports and photograph the final product. 

Uncertainty and Alternate Interpretation
As a basic 3d print, it is only one color and does not have a lot of detail to the design. As such, it is definitely difficult to ascertain
it is a print of a Raggedy Ann doll without having seen my previous work. This leaves the design more open to interpretation as to what it
is, although it could also potentially be painted over (either accurately to the Raggedy Ann doll or as something else completely). 

