Aka the notes before I find out if any of this worked :P

But before I talk about where I am now, allow me to explain how I got here..

I actually spent the beginning part of the module playing with augmented reality. Of course, my love of Pokemon meant I had been following 
updates on Pokemon Go well before it came out. Even though it was terrible in terms of game mechanics, I was still interested in the
technology that made it happen. Of course, the question was how to apply it to my module....

My original thought was to kind of base it off modules 1 and 2. In module 2, I remixed by module 1 raggedy ann doll by having it face the
totoro doll. So, I thought it would be cool if I could do something similar to that using augmented reality. Something along the lines of 
using toys as a trigger image in order to make your own raggedy ann tea party sort of thing.

Of course, the obvious problem is you'd have to choose a very specific set of toy or toys as a trigger image (because toys are so varied),
or make it work for absolutely everything which would kind of defeat the purpose. As such, I started to feel a bit uninspired by taking 
the augmented reality approach. 

There were also a couple of logistical problems I had to consider. Of course, being end of the term means I don't have very much time to 
master (or at least attempt to) new software, especially with my laptop being particularly annoying recently. 
As you'll soon read about from my meshmixer experience, my laptop needs to be cleaned or something (probably have too many steam games on 
it, oops) because it's slightly dying and not all software is running properly. 
I had been playing around with unity, but I was facing quite a few issue which was quite tedious/stressful given my time restraints. 

The combination of these issues plus feeling uninspired by my augmented reality concepts in general is what finally pushed me to switch
to a 3d print instead. 

Of course, 3d Printing is just plain cool. The technology has definitely been hyped up a lot, but so cool that it opens up so many 
possibilities for... well, basically everything. The fact that we can now take something digital and print it back into reality is slightly
mind blowing. 

After thinking about it, 3D printing was also more in line with what I wanted to accomplish. I may be a bit old school, but I like the idea
of having created a physical thing for this project. The most interesting objects to me are those that act as a kind of key to your memory.
I love souvenirs, because something as simple as like a rock, can take you back to that place at that time with those people. My entire 
module 3 was exploring how the raggedy ann doll was a key to memories for my family. By bringing a 3d print of raggedy ann into the world,
it would act as a physical reminder (or evidence to people who arent me) of the raggedy ann doll and what I have done in this course.

Even better, I'd be creating a whole new toy out of the old one, which I think really brings this whole semester "full circle" as they
say. 

Of course, I'm saying all of this having no idea if itll turn out to be anything that even slightly resembles my raggedy ann doll or
model. But, really, even if it ends up a melted pile of garbage, one mans trash is another mans treasure. My patched 50 times raggedy 
ann doll is probably relatively worthless to anyone else, but it means a lot to my family because of the memories associated with it. 
I guess it'd be fitting if the toy based on it were the same. 

Well now that I've started to reflect, let me change directions completely and talk about the specifics of how I made the 
model that the print will be of. In case you've forgotten my module 1 model, it was kind of not even close to being able to be printed.
For one, it was totally hollow and only had one side to it (the doll I scanned was sitting on a stool, so I cut it out for the final
model). It also had very rough edges, often floating outside the doll, which had to be fixed. I definitely had some work to do. 

Fortunately, I already had the stl version of it from my module 2. After importing it into meshmixer (see step 0 in the photo folder),
the first thing I did was head to the meshmix tab and add a cylinder to act as a base. Since I knew the original model was sitting on 
a circular stool, I figured the easiest way to make it stay up would be to have it sit on something similar. I then used the transform
tool to adjust both the cylinder and the doll to my liking. After moving them together, I combined the two shapes together to make it 
easier. 

I then had to clean the model and make it able to be printed. I loosely followed this guide by Frederik Bedrich 
(https://all3dp.com/meshmixer-tutorial/) on how to fix it, but I also kind of played around with the options to see what I liked.

The first order of business was to clean up the floating edges (see, step 1 photo). For this, I used analysis - inspector and adjusted
the settings to clear most of the excess. 

Next, I went to the edit tab to close cracks. I'm not sure if this actually did anything, but I figured it would probably be a good thing
to do. 

What definitely was important was to make the model solid (at least, for now). Here is where I had the most difficulty with meshmixer
crashing/freezing. I'm not really sure why, but eventually I reloaded enough times and it actually worked. I tried using all 4 solid 
types. Originally I wanted to use the blocky solid type, but it created a lot of precise edges that would have to be printed perfectly
or else look terrible. Accurate looked the nicest as a digital model, but again precise details was not what I was going for. Eventually
I decided on fast and just ran with it.

Next I needed to clean up the solid model again. Although the floating edges were gone, there were still a lot of random edges and one 
foot looked just weird. I used the sculpt - fallout tools to take away anything that I didn't like, then used the draw brush to fill 
cracks. Finally, I used the smooth tools in order to make the model simpler. (Result of this can be seen in step 2 photo). I was tempted
to use the draw tool to re-add the eyes but it always looked weird. I figured it'd be better to paint them back on if I wanted once I 
got the print back. 

Finally, I had to make the model someone viable to print. The original dimensions were tiny - only a couple mm by a couple mm, so I
increased the scale (analysis - units/dimensions) to make it a decent size. To save time and money, I followed the tutorials 
instructions to make the model hollow (edit - hollow). I didn't want to make the walls too thin and risk collapse, so I still left them
at a pretty solid 3.5 mm. Fingers crossed it works! The tutorial mentioned adding holes to the bottom of your model, however when I 
clicked the button nothing happened. So hopefully they weren't necessary...

The last thing I had to do was add supports if necessary. I'm not even sure if they will show up at all in the stl file I sent, but since
meshmixer has an automatic tool for it (analysis-overhangs) I figured I might as well try it. This also crashed several times, but 
again I managed to get it to work eventually. 

From here, all I had to do was export it and send it to the carleton library! I went in person and they told me I wouldn't get my design
back until mid next week, but fortunately the projection is now Monday. Therefore, expect the rest of the notes/ module by Tuesday unless
something goes horribly wrong. Fingers crossed it actually works, but either way I can't wait to see how it turns out.

Until next time!












