It worked! I finally got my 3d print back and it wasn't totally collapsed. Hallelujah!

Since all I've done since the last process notes was run up and down the stairs of the library several times, I want to use these notes 
more to make informal observations about the final product.

I uploaded pictures here (both with and without supports). in case you want to see what I'm talking about: 
https://github.com/eliseanderson/hist3812-module-4/tree/master/3d_Print

Ends up my camera did NOT like taking pictures of it (shiny and the same color apparently not being a good combo) so it took a while to 
get photos that weren't totally blurry. 

The print is about 8cm x 9cm x 7cm, but it's a lot lighter than I thought it could be. I did make my print hollow so that's probably partially
it, but the plastic itself feels lightweight as well. It does have a lot of tiny grooves in the surface, which makes it feel almost like a 
seatbelt texture. Really interesting!

Ends up my print was made in black plastic. I'm not sure if thats the only color they have or if it's the default, but it doesn't matter 
much to me (though a red would have been cool in hindsight!). 

I was worried the details of the skirt would not show up well, but I was pleasantly surprised how well it turned out. I didn't choose the
blocky version of the model since I was afraid the small blocks wouldn't show, but after seeing this I don't think that'd be a problem 
(though I think I prefer this version anyways). It would likely need more supports though. 

The supports for the most part came off easily, although some of the supports for the hair are still somewhat stuck. A project for another
day. 

In the future, I'd also like to get someone (aka one of my actually artistic friends) to paint the print to look like the original doll. Or
perhaps even a different color scheme to see how it compares. Once it's painted I think it would be cool to display on a bookshelf or something 
next to my other random travel souvenirs. History becomes art!

If I were to print again, I'd probably half the size of the base just to save money. I do actually like it because the proportions remind me
of a Marie Antoinette style ballgown, but ultimately not that important to the final print. 

Well, that about covers it. Can't wait to show off the print to everyone!







